# Task1: create a image, container, volume and mount the application

###### it can be any image, im running this image from 2.docker-django-application/3.task/
1. docker build -t sample-volume-testing . 
###### check if image created  
2. docker images
###### create volume with name deepika
3. docker volume create deepika 
###### we are running docker in detached mode and not in interactive terminal mode (-it) and also doing volume mounting.
4. docker run -d -p 8085:8080 --mount source=deepika,target=/app sample-volume-testing 
###### as docker container is created, lets get inside the container (docker exec -it <containerid> bash)
5. docker exec -it 881714e01c2b bash
###### goto /app ( as this is the target mount folder)
6. cd /app
###### create some file and write context, if vim not avaialable, install it using apt install vim
7. vim hello_world_volume_testing
###### Lets now delete the volume and see if the data still exist on source=deepika, to find complete path, 881714e01c2b is containerid.
###### you will find the output in MOunts section similar to "Source": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/deepika/_data"
Additional: Volumes are inside the virtual machine of Docker Desktop. You can’t directly read them, but you can from a container. If you want to copy the content of a volume, you can use docker copy on a running container that mounted the volume. If you just want to read the content, go to Docker Desktop dashboard » Volumes and click on a volume. You can find the “Data” tab where you can browse the content and save files but can’t read the content. You can also use the Volumes Backup & Share extension to export the volume.
8. docker inspect 881714e01c2b 
###### lets delete the container
9. docker stop 881714e01c2b
10. docker rm 881714e01c2b
###### The volume still exists and you can attach that to new container, whenever a container crash, lets do that
11. run the same command from step 4.  
12. docker ps
13. run the same command from step5 -but with new container id
14. goto folder /app and you will now see the  data of old container
###### Finally, you can delete the volume as you created it locally
15. docker volume rm deepika

Conclusion: This is how you can persist your data.